ON-15464: Troubleshooting guide (#123)
Xilinx-CNS/kubernetes-onload: docs/troubleshooting.md

# Troubleshooting

Your AMD sales representative and support team are available to assist with troubleshooting KubernetesOnload
in your cluster. Please see [release notes](../ReleaseNotes.md).

## FAQ

### How can I confirm Onload Operator has deployed successfully?

> [Onload Operator](#onload-operator) resources will be present with their logs clear of errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Onload Operator](#onload-operator) pod will be running with their logs clear of errors. Onload CRD will have created successfully.
```
Resources could be confusing in the context, since the device-plugin creates a different kind of "resource".

For example, the pod has a status of `CrashLoopBackOff`.

Use the [Onload component](#onload-components) commands to determine whether:

* `onload-device-plugin`, `onload-worker`, or `onload-user` images failed to pull from [registries](#registries), or
* the allocated namespace (by default, current context):
  * has a security policy which disallows privileged pods/roles, or
  * has insufficient resource quotas, or
* your current user context is insufficiently privileged for creating privileged resources, or
* init container failed to copy Onload files to a [node(s) local storage](#node-host) as either:
  * sufficient writable free space is not available on node filesystem mounts, or
  * kernel security (eg. SELinux) is lacking a compatible configuration for the mounts, or
  * one or more of the host mount paths is incompatible with the underlying host filesystem layout, or
* Onload Worker failed to start an environment for the Onload Control Plane as:
  * `/dev/onload` was not found due to node host missing:
    * `onload` kernel module, or
    * out-of-tree `sfc` kernel module, or
  * its container ID was not found due to an unsupported CRI, or

> * Onload Device Plugin's AMD Solarflare hardware discovery failed due to unsupported or missing hardware or kernel, or

Reviewer: What does "kernel" mean in this context? The device plugin doesn't check kernel versions

Use the [accelerated pod](#accelerated-pods) commands to determine whether:

* the resource `amd.com/onload` has not been requested, or
* the `LD_PRELOAD` environment variable is not set when expected, and/or
* the `/bin/onload` mount has been disabled, or
* an AMD Solarflare hardware network interface provided by Multus:
  * is misconfigured, or
  * references outdated kernel networking state due to differing behaviour in out-of-tree kernel modules, or
* the LIBC version of provided `onload` binary is incompatible with the container's base image.

See [sfnettest example](config/samples/sfnettest).

### Why is my accelerated workload performing differently than on bare metal?

Refer to the Onload User Guide to compare all standard tunables. Many configurations, such as kernel boot parameters,
NUMA node selection, and Onload profiles, are specified in slightly different ways.

This is likely caused by a variable other than KubernetesOnload as:

* Onload Operator does not introduce any additional layers into Onload's bypass stack; it is just orchestration.
* The version of Onload compiled in the `onload-user` images and the kernel modules compiled in-cluster or out of

>   cluster from `onload-source` image match the standard Linux packages and are not customised variants.

Reviewer: I don't really understand what this is trying to say,

to this is the `imagePullPolicy` in Onload CR.

### OpenShift Image Registry

KMM and Onload Operator will work with any writable registry, however this repo's OCP-specific Onload CR samples
utilise the OpenShift Image Registry by default to store in-cluster build images.

```sh
# Expect configured, eg. spec.managementState, spec.defaultRoute, and spec.storage
oc get configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml

# Expect `onload-module` when using for kernel module in-cluster builds
oc get imagestreams -n onload-clusterlocal

# Expect list of KMM-built or pre-built images
oc describe imagestream onload-module -n onload-clusterlocal
```

### KMM Operator version

```sh
# When deployed via OLM (OperatorHub), version:
kubectl get csv -n openshift-kmm

# else, version in labels and image tags:
kubectl describe -n openshift-kmm deployment/kmm-operator-controller-manager
```

### KMM Operator operation

```sh
# Expect events: ModuleLoaded, ModuleUnloaded
kubectl describe node $node
kubectl get event -n openshift-kmm

kubectl logs -n openshift-kmm deployment/kmm-operator-controller-manager -f
```

> Refer to KMM documentation for further expected deployment state details and troubleshooting advice.

Reviewer: It might be worth highlighting the fact that there may be issues with the module deployment that are not visible by the onload operator or by examining the modules, and so the actual kmm pods have to be examined manually. I know you include the command to get the logs from the kmm controller, but I think a small explanation why would be helpful.

$debug_node -- dmesg -xT | grep -ie sfc -e onload

$debug_node -- chroot /host /opt/onload/usr/bin/onload_stackdump lots # or `filters` or `filter_table`
$debug_node -- chroot /host /opt/onload/usr/bin/onload_mibdump llap
```

## Accelerated pods

```sh
pod=onload-sfnettest-client

# Expect `amd.com/onload`
kubectl get pod $pod -o jsonpath='{..resources.limits}'

# Expect path to `libonload.so` unless `setPreload` in Onload CR is disabled
kubectl exec $pod -- sh -c 'echo $LD_PRELOAD'

# Expect `onload` binary and/or `libonload.so` libraries. Adjust if different mount paths set in Onload CR
kubectl exec onload-sfnettest-client -- ls -R /opt/onload

# Expect Onload version
kubectl exec onload-sfnettest-client -- /opt/onload/usr/lib64/libonload.so

# Expect a net1 interface for Multus networks
kubectl get events --field-selector reason=AddedInterface

# Expect `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` referencing accelerable hardware
nad=ipvlan-bond0
kubectl get net-attach-def $nad -o yaml
```

Further details on individuals applications are available from Onload tools on the [node host](#node-host).

For more complex issues, debug versions of Onload may be built.

> See [Build: Onload Source & Onload User](../README.md#onload-source--onload-user).

Reviewer: I think the reference to building a debug version of onload here is a very different scope from the rest of the recommendations presented in the section. Typically this is only done when experiencing an issue in onload itself, rather than when getting it started.

### Modules and devices already loaded or mounted

Remove any old deployments, including:

* Onload Operator deployments which were not cleanly removed, or
* alternatives to KubernetesOnload such as direct filesystem install.

A crude method:

```sh
node=

> kubectl debug node/$node -- chroot /host rmmod -v onload sfc_char sfc_resource

Reviewer: `sfc_driverlink`? `sfc`? In the case of `sfc` it is worth mentioning that if the nic is used for any other traffic then they will lose connection until a driver is re-installed.
